[Music]
Hey how's it going Dave 2d here so we
need to preface this video with a pretty
big disclaimer everything I talk about
in this video
you kind of do it at your own discretion
because opening up your computer
fiddling with stuff playing with
software that affects like under volting
and bios and stuff like that you kind of
do it at your own risk because there's
always an element of verse to her right
I think it's safe I created this video I
have experimented with it extensively
but it is at your own risk okay
this video is about two powerful tweaks
that can greatly improve the performance
of your laptop and there's two parts to
it first is a software it's a relatively
easy tweak super safe and then the
second part involves opening up your
laptop to apply thermal compounds it's
something a little more dicey but it
should keep your warranty intact as long
as you don't tell anyone about it okay
the first thing we're gonna look at is
the software and this software gives you
tremendous control over your CPU and if
you just start clicking things randomly
yeah you can mess things up but we're
gonna be dealing with one thing which is
under bolting and it's super safe under
volting is a process where you reduce
the voltage that's going to the CPU but
it doesn't affect performance at all and
the reason why you can do this safely is
because CPUs are fed more voltage than
they actually need it's just a matter of
finding that sweet spot the two more
popular apps that people use for this
are XTU by Intel and throttle stop both
are free both are good but for beginners
I would recommend XTU because it has all
the basic components you need to
properly under volt this is XTU
when you first load it up I know it
looks crazy complex lots of numbers but
we can ignore most of it first let's
adjust the graphing monitor to show
thirty minutes of data we're gonna
stress test your CPU at its baseline
without any adjustments just to see what
numbers were getting so this is the XPS
15 95 60 it's running a KB Lake 7700 HQ
so during the stress test the CPU is
running pretty much Full Tilt occasional
dip and the temperatures are going up
and down as the fans turn on and off at
its hottest it's 88 degrees and at the
coolest around 75 76 degrees now the way
to undervolt properly is to drop the
voltage
stress test and if it checks out drop
the voltage again and repeat you're
basically starving the CPU more and more
and so to do that in XTU you go to
advanced tuning and on this core tab you
click on the core voltage offset and you
want to scroll upwards from zero to see
negative numbers remember we're under
vaulting here so you want to choose a
negative number so we're going to start
with an under volt of 50 millivolts so
I'm gonna reduce it by zero point zero
five zero volts and whenever on the
stress test now we're getting a max of
83 84 degrees for a couple of clicks not
bad right system is still completely
stable we're getting full clock speeds
and to step in the right direction okay
then we're gonna kick it up a notch and
I'm gonna reduce it by a hundred and
twenty millivolts which is negative zero
point one two zero volts and I'm
cheating here because I know this is
near the limit for this particular CPU
you should reduce it one increment at a
time and test a bit but for the sake of
speed I'm cranking that knob to ten so
at this under volts when we stress test
and activate the graph we're getting
even lower temperatures maxing at around
77 degrees so a good 10 or 11 degree
drop from the original unaltered voltage
so just to demonstrate I'm gonna drop my
voltage to negative 130 millivolts I
know it's gonna freeze because I've done
this before
you might even blue screen and when it
does that's when you know you've hit the
under volt limit and when you're there
reboot go back into xeu and go back to
the last voltage that worked and for me
that was negative 120 and that's your
limit to really test the stability you
want to run something like prime95
overnight just to make sure it's all
good if it doesn't last overnight bump
up the voltage now every CPU is
different so it's tough for me to tell
you exactly where to start but I would
recommend looking up your CPU or your
particular laptop and seeing what other
users with that hardware have been able
to unravel too and just kind of use that
as a starting guide for the KB Lake 7700
HQ I would start around 100 millivolts
so that's negative zero point one zero
zero volts for the skylake 6700 hqi
under volts at around 150 millivolts so
that's negative zero point one five zero
volts and when you're done you can close
X Q down the settings apply even on
reboot you don't have to keep the front
end application open
so under volting laptops can give you
better thermals but in my experience the
best results come from something called
repay stting okay when a laptop
manufacturer makes a laptop there comes
a point in the manufacturing process
when someone or something
usually person has to apply thermal
paste on to the CPU and the GPU and
usually they don't do an amazing job
usually in a rush it's like a person
who's doing like hundreds of laptops I
just made that number up but they're
doing a lot of laptops every day and
they're just squirting paste they don't
really give that much attention to each
CPU what ends up happening is that the
application is imperfect usually there's
too much and there's a good chance
they're not using the best quality
thermal paste there's nothing super
terrible about this the laptop will
perform to spec but it'll run hot to
resolve this we're gonna reapply that
thermal paste and we're going to use
better quality stuff which results in
lower temperatures so for the
uninitiated thermal paste is goopy stuff
that you apply on to CPUs or GPUs to
help transfer heat away from it and the
better quality paste that you use and
the better the application process the
better of a job at it does
[Music]
again every laptop is different so
you'll have to search around to see if
people have done it on yours but the
more popular laptops tend to have some
kind of guide or tutorial as to how to
do it for the XPS 15 once you're inside
carefully unplug the battery loosen up
the screws here carefully remove the
heat pipe assembly and then clean off
the original pastes using alcohol or
arctic cleaner or whatever you want and
then apply some good thermal paste so I
tend to do a small blob for the GPU and
then a small line for the CPU just to
use good quality paste
I like Arctic silver 5 you don't need a
lot but you're better off using too much
then way too little on some laptops
you'll see thermal pads you can swap
those out for better quality ones or
potentially thicker ones basically you
want the thermal pad to eliminate any
kind of air gap and then when you're
done place the heatsink back on but
don't lift up to check how you did just
trust because if you lift it up you can
put air bubbles into the paste and
that's no good one other thing that's
kind of unique to the XPS 15 this area
here has a voltage regulator modules
that get pretty warm I've always put
throw'em pads over this area just to
help transfer the heat to the aluminum
paneling and in the end the reap acing
gives you a further drop in temperature
better battery life fans that come on
less and most importantly no more CPU
throttling your laptop will be able to
run at its maximum clock speed for as
long as it wants and if you play games
render videos or just do anything that
pushes your laptop hard you're gonna get
some nice performance gains from this
the thing is some people gonna watch
this video and they're just gonna jump
to the conclusion that this is the best
thing ever it's cool it's awesome but
it's not for everyone if you've never
opened your computer before if you don't
know what thermal paste is you've never
used it before you can still learn and
figure out how to do this stuff and it's
great once you do but take your time do
the research understand what you're
doing before you do it because there is
an element of risk to this I really
don't want you breaking your laptop just
because you were a little overzealous
take your time do it properly
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
have you liked it subs if you loved it
I'll see you guys next time
[Music]